---
layout: post
title: Mechanisms, Protocols and Applications for Good Choices
permalink: Choice_Research
---

*Update March 2021: as conversations around this evolved, the focus has narrowed to building novel forms of marketplaces that maximize the funding they generate for their complementary public goods. [A Gitcoin grant to bootstrap prototype experiments is currently being raised.](https://gitcoin.co/grants/5130/decentralised-autonomous-markets)*

---

(original post)

How to set up good incentives for information that guides choosing the best action is a crucial challenge for collective cognition. It has received mostly scholarly attention in the literature around *Decision Markets*. Decision markets seek to both predict and decide the future. They differ from more traditional markets such as betting ("prediction markets") in that they seek to influence the object of their attention instead of merely being influenced by it.

Robin Hanson in *[Futarchy](http://mason.gmu.edu/~rhanson/futarchy.html)* proposes to **vote on values, bet on beliefs**. While superficially eloquent, this works better as alliteration than as incentive alignment. If one tries to use betting mechanisms to guide decisions, things do not work out. Betting on the value of the reward conditional on each potential action and voiding bets for unchosen actions is not, as [Othman and Sandholm pointed out](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~sandholm/decision%20rules%20and%20decision%20markets.AAMAS10.pdf), incentive compatible when the decision is made by selecting the action with the highest expected reward as determined by the market. This family of mechanisms requires that strictly dominated actions be taken with substantial positive probability ([Chen et al](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/TEAC-final1.pdf)). These theoretical difficulties are matched by a lack of practical implementations.

[Advice Auctions](http://nikete.com/advice_auctions.pdf) may be the mechanism that enables market-driven decision making. It is based on an old and simple idea—giving your advisors a share of the reward—with an algorithmic twist: facilitating the advisors themselves seeking advice in the same way recursively. The space these markets work over is explicitly not expectations over actions but instead the selection of a good policy for making them. This makes auditing the advice possible, as well as evaluating its counterfactual performance.

Recently [Osterheld and Conitzer](https://users.cs.duke.edu/~conitzer/decisionWINE20.pdf) showed a fundamental limit to elicitation for decision making: only the best action and its expected reward are elicitable. Advice auctions match this precisely; further, they are able to deal with complementary information distributed between different experts, something that betting mechanisms used in prediction markets fail at.

In the spirit of [Constructive Economics](https://web.archive.org/web/20161229154937/http://aiecon.tumblr.com/post/489827144/what-is-constructive-economics), the focus is on making it real. Smart contracts running on proof-of-stake blockchains provide a playground for experimenting with novel economic structures. A self-referential experiment in computational social science: a DAO run by, and dedicated to the development of, practical designs for incentivizing advice that leads to better choices. The DAO itself making decisions using the proposed mechanisms.

The goal is to experiment with what applications are well suited to these mechanisms, how the mechanisms need to be refined, and what is needed to make this happen. Potential applications:

* Choosing if a seed-stage fundraising team/project should be funded
* Choosing profit-maximizing bid-ask spreads for automated market makers; more broadly, choosing parameters of control systems in governance-minimized systems
* Choosing suppliers when quality is hard to observe ex-ante but affects an ex-post observable reward
* Choosing what to learn to maximize market income in some future period

After conversations about advice auctions and related work on decision elicitation at the [DIMACS Workshop on Forecasting: From Forecasts to Decisions](http://dimacs.rutgers.edu/events/details?eID=1873) and with the open research collectives around the Ethereum ecosystem, there seems to be enough momentum to have an open research collective for research and design on advice and policy elicitation.

Some initial topics of research are around how to leverage different parts of the literature on elicitation:

* Decision markets are to prediction markets as bandit problems are to fully supervised ones. Data from related supervised tasks can be valuable in training models that are fine-tuned on a bandit or reinforcement learning environment. How can prediction markets for variables related to those of the choice but that do not directly stem from it be used to improve the elicitation of the choice?

* How can the share of the reward that is auctioned off be set? The basic tradeoff is that making the share close to 1 reduces the downside risk at the cost of also reducing the upside for the decision maker. Higher values also raise capital requirements for participation, effectively limiting competition between advice providers.

* What is the role of meta-questions as in Bayesian truth serum and related mechanisms?

* Would giving away a token to particularly skilled groups of potential advisors (say, high-scoring users on forecast competition sites) be beneficial? Should it be possible to cash them out only after some amount of trading (so they are not fungible until they have accumulated some history, then could be transformed into a standard fungible version)?

If you'd like to get involved, reach out.
